README.md, before:

# tink_cli

Write command line tools with ~~ease~~ Haxe.

## Usage

```haxe
Cli.process(Sys.args(), new MyCommand()).handle(function(o) {});
```

### Flags
Every `public var` in the class will be treated as a cli flag.

For example `public var flag:String` will be set to value `<x>` by the cli swtich `--flag <x>`.
Also, the framework will also recognize the first letter of the flag name as alias. So in this case
`-f <x>` will do the same.

You can use metadata data to govern the flag name (`@:flag('my-custom-flag-name')`) and alias (`@:alias('a')`).
Note that you can only use a single charater for alias.

The reason for a single-char restriction for alias is that you can use a condensed alias format, for example:

`-abcdefg` is actually equivalent to `-a -b -c -d -e -f -g`.

### Commands
Public methods tagged with `@:command` will be treated as a runnable command.

For example `@:command public function run() {}` can be triggered by `./yourscript run`. In case you want to
run a function under your binary name, you can tag a function with `@:defaultCommand`, then you will be able
to run the function with `./yourscript`.

By default the framework infer the command name from the method name,
you can provide a parameter to the metadata like `@:command('my-cmd')` to change that.

#### Function signature:

TODO...

### Data Types

By default, Bool, Int, Float and String are supported. Furthermore, you can use any abstract that is castable from String
(i.e. `from String` or `@:from public static function ofString(v:String)`) as the data type.

For example, to use a Map:

```haxe

@:forward
abstract CustomMap(StringMap<Int>) from StringMap<Int> to StringMap<Int> {
	@:from
	public static function fromString(v:String):CustomMap {
		var map = new StringMap<Int>();
		for(i in v.split(',')) switch i.split('=') {
			case [key, value]: map.set(key, (value:tink.Stringly));
			default: throw 'Invalid format';
		}
		return map;
	}
} 
```

Also, note that if a flag is of type Bool, the flag will be set to true without considering the "switch argument",
For example, `--force` is used instead of `--force true` to set `force = true`. In fact in the latter case, the `true`
string is considered as a Rest argument.

Rest argument is a list of strings which are not consumed by the flag parser. You can capture it in a command with
an `Array<String>`. For example:

```haxe
@:defaultCommand
public function run(rest:Array<String>) {}
```

### User Input

Besides a non-interaction tool as described above. One can also build an interactive tool, by utilizing the `Prompt` interface.

It is bascally:

```haxe
interface Prompt {
	function prompt(type:PromptType):Promise<String>;
}

enum PromptType {
	Simple(prompt:String);
	MultipleChoices(prompt:String, choices:Array<String>);
}
```

Basically you ask for an input from the user, and then you will get a promised result. It is just an interface
so you can basically implement any mechanism of input, from simple text input to "GUI" input with arrow movements, etc.

For now there is a `SimplePrompt` which basically read from the stdin and take in anything the user gives.
And in case of multiple choice prompt, `RetryPrompt` will make sure the user are choosing from the provided list of choices,
and fail after certain number of retries.

### Examples

Check out the examples folder.

Commit message:

Document how to obtain a prompt instance

README.md, after:

# tink_cli

Write command line tools with ~~ease~~ Haxe.

## Usage

```haxe
Cli.process(Sys.args(), new MyCommand(), new MyPrompt()).handle(function(o) {});
```

### Flags
Every `public var` in the class will be treated as a cli flag.

For example `public var flag:String` will be set to value `<x>` by the cli swtich `--flag <x>`.
Also, the framework will also recognize the first letter of the flag name as alias. So in this case
`-f <x>` will do the same.

You can use metadata data to govern the flag name (`@:flag('my-custom-flag-name')`) and alias (`@:alias('a')`).
Note that you can only use a single charater for alias.

The reason for a single-char restriction for alias is that you can use a condensed alias format, for example:

`-abcdefg` is actually equivalent to `-a -b -c -d -e -f -g`.

### Commands
Public methods tagged with `@:command` will be treated as a runnable command.

For example `@:command public function run() {}` can be triggered by `./yourscript run`. In case you want to
run a function under your binary name, you can tag a function with `@:defaultCommand`, then you will be able
to run the function with `./yourscript`.

By default the framework infer the command name from the method name,
you can provide a parameter to the metadata like `@:command('my-cmd')` to change that.

#### Function signature:

TODO...

### Data Types

By default, Bool, Int, Float and String are supported. Furthermore, you can use any abstract that is castable from String
(i.e. `from String` or `@:from public static function ofString(v:String)`) as the data type.

For example, to use a Map:

```haxe

@:forward
abstract CustomMap(StringMap<Int>) from StringMap<Int> to StringMap<Int> {
	@:from
	public static function fromString(v:String):CustomMap {
		var map = new StringMap<Int>();
		for(i in v.split(',')) switch i.split('=') {
			case [key, value]: map.set(key, (value:tink.Stringly));
			default: throw 'Invalid format';
		}
		return map;
	}
} 
```

Also, note that if a flag is of type Bool, the flag will be set to true without considering the "switch argument",
For example, `--force` is used instead of `--force true` to set `force = true`. In fact in the latter case, the `true`
string is considered as a Rest argument.

Rest argument is a list of strings which are not consumed by the flag parser. You can capture it in a command with
an `Array<String>`. For example:

```haxe
@:defaultCommand
public function run(rest:Array<String>) {}
```

### User Input

Besides a non-interaction tool as described above. One can also build an interactive tool, by utilizing the `Prompt` interface.

It is bascally:

```haxe
interface Prompt {
	function prompt(type:PromptType):Promise<String>;
}

enum PromptType {
	Simple(prompt:String);
	MultipleChoices(prompt:String, choices:Array<String>);
}
```

Basically you ask for an input from the user, and then you will get a promised result. It is just an interface
so you can basically implement any mechanism of input, from simple text input to "GUI" input with arrow movements, etc.

For now there is a `SimplePrompt` which basically read from the stdin and take in anything the user gives.
And in case of multiple choice prompt, `RetryPrompt` will make sure the user are choosing from
the provided list of choices, and fail after certain number of retries.

First, you set a `Prompt` instance in `Cli.process(args, command, ?prompt)`
(defaults to a `SimplePrompt` instance if omitted)
and then you can later obtain it back from a command's function like so:

```haxe
@:command
public function run(prompt:tink.cli.Prompt) {
	prompt.prompt('Input your name: ').handle(...);
}
```

### Examples

Check out the examples folder.
